When people talk about the simplification
of the Chinese language they're normally referring
to just the most recent developments of the
20th century.
However, you'll also find that textbooks talk
about simplification with another sense of
the term in mind, stretching back for more
than a thousand years --basically, throughout
the whole known history of the written language.
My first example is this word yàn.
This is a reasonably ancient word that appears
in literary figures of speech, but rarely
in everyday conversation.
The basic meaning of the word is "swallow"
--not the verb, "to swallow", but the noun,
meaning a type of migrating bird.
If this is your first time seeing the character,
you might wonder how this set of radicals
ever gained a meaning related to birds, especially
given how many other words there are in Chinese
that clearly enough show pictographs of a
bird, facing left, like niǎo [鳥].
The more you know about these radicals, the
stranger it seems.
On the left and right we have the two halves
of běi, meaning "north", that we could also
think of as a doubled spoon radical (although,
as I mentioned in an earlier video, the spoon
radical is often used to represent a human
figure in Chinese).
At the bottom of the character we have the
standard abbreviation of the fire radical
as four dots.
In the middle of the glyph we have the mouth
radical, or, at least, a box of some kind,
leaving us with a bit of a mystery at the
top, as that figure isn't really a radical
at all.
The closest character in modern script is
niàn, a literary way to write the numeral
20.
So, when we put the whole character together,
it looks like complete nonsense; and it is.
How did we end up with a type of bird being
represented by assembling together the symbols
meaning "twenty", "mouth", "north" and "fire"?
If the language has so many other symbols
that just directly show you a picture of a
bird, why was it necessary for the language
to resort to this complex combination to indirectly
suggest its meaning?
When we look back at clerical script, the
symbols have become a bit more symmetrical,
but there's no clear hint as to how it all
ended up this way.
Seal script gives us a very clear next step,
and then, suddenly, we can see what the symbols
were supposed to represent in the oracle bones.
In the extremely remote past this was a picture
of a bird, with the head at the top, two wings
on either side, and so on.
If you try writing out the character using
the full form of the fire radical, you can
see that the seal script was trying to render
the feathered tail of the bird with four lines
that vaguely resembled the fire radical --but
even this vague resemblance disappears when
the radical is reduced to just four dots.
Although the four dots are a standard way
to reduce the fire radical to a half-size
form, it can obscure the etymology of the
word; in this example we'd be able to "see"
the character much better without the abbreviation.
Is this what we mean by the "simplification"
of Chinese characters?
Well, historically it is one of the most important
types of changes that we observe: a unified
pictograph is broken down into smaller pieces,
and those pieces are made to resemble radicals.
Unfortunately, if we're really being honest,
the result of this historical process is complete
nonsense; and this is one of the reasons why
so many native speakers of Chinese don't really
want to learn the radicals, feeling that they'll
only get more confused by knowing this stuff.
Just to provide a rapid contrast to a very
different pictograph of a bird, I can remember
that the first time I saw this character it
just looked like a grid of lines to me.
I managed to convince myself that it has some
resemblance to the ancient picture of a bird
(facing left).
In this case we're also looking at a process
of "simplification", but here the image has
been retained as a single unit, instead of
being broken into separate radicals.
However, the streamlining of the brushstrokes
has, again, reduced sense into nonsense.
My third example seems simple, as the bottom
half is an easily-recognized symbol, clearly
related to the meaning of the word.
However, what is the top half, exactly?
This isn't a radical, it isn't a phonetic
component, it isn't a character and it can't
be broken down into radicals, either.
The vast majority of Chinese students will
memorize the shape without knowing what it
is supposed to be, but, in fact, we're looking
at an indirect echo of the same image of "two
hands doing something" that we can still see
at the top of the character meaning "to study"
(here shown in the bottom-right corner).
The seal-script showing the two hands at the
top doesn't provide any kind of shocking revelation
about the meaning of the word, however it
is a meaningful symbol, and it should provide
the student with a reminder of the meaning
of the word, and, also, a bridge to related
words (that use the same image of two hands
completing a task).
Instead, what was once a meaningful symbol
has been simplified into something that is
completely meaningless.
Again, this isn't "simplification" in the
modern sense; this didn't happen in the 20th
century.
What we're talking about here is a much longer,
historical process of scribal changes that
erases the logic that was once present in
the composition of the characters.
So the ancient simplification of characters
presents a few different problems for modern
students.
As we saw in the first example, unique images
that actually show the meaning of the word
(and might be easy to remember) have been
broken down into a series of smaller symbols
that don't make any sense at all.
In these cases, there's no analysis of the
symbols that will tell you the sound or meaning
of the word: the radicals genuinely don't
make sense, they've become an indirect way
of sketching the original image (only known
from the oracle bones).
With all of the types of simplification we've
looked at, the meaningful links between characters
disappear.
We lose associations of meaning, sound and
etymology that formerly made the language
more rewarding to learn, and, at the same
time, there are false resemblances and false
links between characters being created.